---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "genesiscloud_filesystem Resource - terraform-provider-genesiscloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Filesystem resource
---

# genesiscloud_filesystem (Resource)

Filesystem resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "genesiscloud_filesystem" "example" {
  name        = "example"
  description = "Example filesystem"
  region      = "NORD-NO-KRS-1"
  size        = 50
  type        = "vast"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The human-readable name for the filesystem.
- `region` (String) The identifier for the region this filesystem exists in.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, the resource will be replaced.
  - The value must be one of: ["EUC-DE-MUC-1" "NORD-NO-KRS-1"].
- `size` (Number) The storage size of this filesystem given in GiB.
  - The value must be at least 1.
- `type` (String) The storage type of the filesystem.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, the resource will be replaced.
  - The value must be one of: ["vast"].

### Optional

- `description` (String) The human-readable description for the filesystem.
  - Sets the default value "" if the attribute is not set.
- `retain_on_delete` (Boolean) Flag to retain the filesystem when the resource is deleted
  - Sets the default value "false" if the attribute is not set.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when this filesystem was created in RFC 3339.
- `id` (String) A unique identifier for each filesystem. This is automatically generated.
- `mount_base_path` (String) The base path on the server under which the mount point can be accessed.
- `mount_endpoint_range` (List of String) The start and end IP of the mount endpoint range. Expressed as a array with two entries.
- `status` (String) The filesystem status.

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import genesiscloud_filesystem.example 18efeec8-94f0-4776-8ff2-5e9b49c74608
```
