---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "genesiscloud_floating_ip Resource - terraform-provider-genesiscloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  floating IP resource
---

# genesiscloud_floating_ip (Resource)

floating IP resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "genesiscloud_floating_ip" "floating_ip" {
  name    = "terraform-floating-ip"
  region  = "NORD-NO-KRS-1"
  version = "ipv4"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The human-readable name for the floating IP.
- `region` (String) The region identifier.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, the resource will be replaced.
  - The value must be one of: ["ARC-IS-HAF-1" "EUC-DE-MUC-1" "NORD-NO-KRS-1"].
- `version` (String) The version of the floating IP.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, the resource will be replaced.
  - The value must be one of: ["ipv4"].

### Optional

- `description` (String) The human-readable description set for the floating IP.
  - Sets the default value "" if the attribute is not set.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when this floating IP was created in RFC 3339.
- `id` (String) The unique ID of the floating IP.
- `ip_address` (String) The IP address of the floating IP.
- `is_public` (Boolean) Whether the floating IP is public or private.
  - Sets the default value "true" if the attribute is not set.
- `status` (String) The floating IP status.
- `updated_at` (String) The timestamp when this image was last updated in RFC 3339.

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import genesiscloud_floating_ip.example 18efeec8-94f0-4776-8ff2-5e9b49c74608
```
