---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "genesiscloud_instance Resource - terraform-provider-genesiscloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Instance resource
---

# genesiscloud_instance (Resource)

Instance resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "genesiscloud_instance" "example" {
  name   = "example"
  region = "ARC-IS-HAF-1"

  image_id = "my-image-id"
  type     = "vcpu-2_memory-4g_disk-80g"

  ssh_key_ids = [
    "my-ssh-key-id"
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `image_id` (String) The image of the instance.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
- `name` (String) The human-readable name for the instance.
- `region` (String) The region identifier.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
  - The value must be one of: [`ARC-IS-HAF-1` `EUC-DE-MUC-1` `NORD-NO-KRS-1`].
- `type` (String) The instance type identifier. Learn more about instance types [here](https://developers.genesiscloud.com/instances#instance-types).
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.

### Optional

- `hostname` (String) The hostname of your instance. If not provided will be initially set to the `name` attribute.
  - If the value of this attribute is configured and changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
- `metadata` (Attributes) Option to provide metadata. Currently supported is `startup_script`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metadata))
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password to access the instance. Your password must have upper and lower chars, digits and length between 8-72. **Please Note**: Only one of `ssh_keys` or `password` can be provided. Password is less secure - we recommend you use an SSH key-pair.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
  - The string length must be at least 16.
- `placement_option` (String) The placement option identifier in which instances are physically located relative to each other within a zone.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
  - Sets the default value `AUTO` if the attribute is not set.
- `public_ip_type` (String) When set to `static`, the instance's public IP will not change between start and stop actions.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
  - Sets the default value `dynamic` if the attribute is not set.
  - The value must be one of: [`dynamic` `static`].
- `security_group_ids` (Set of String) The security groups of the instance. If not provided will be set to the default security group.
- `ssh_key_ids` (Set of String) The ssh keys of the instance.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
  - The set must contain at least 1 elements.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))
- `volume_ids` (Set of String) The volumes of the instance.

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when this image was created in RFC 3339.
- `id` (String) The unique ID of the instance.
- `private_ip` (String) The private IPv4 IP-Address (IPv4 address).
- `public_ip` (String) The public IPv4 IP-Address (IPv4 address).
- `status` (String) The instance status.
- `updated_at` (String) The timestamp when this image was last updated in RFC 3339.

<a id="nestedatt--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Optional:

- `startup_script` (String) A plain text bash script or "cloud-config" file that will be executed after the first instance boot. It is limited to 64 KiB in size. You can use it to configure your instance, e.g. installing the NVIDIA GPU driver. Learn more about [startup scripts and installing the GPU driver](https://support.genesiscloud.com/support/solutions/articles/47001122478).
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `read` (String)
- `update` (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import genesiscloud_instance.example 18efeec8-94f0-4776-8ff2-5e9b49c74608
```
