---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "genesiscloud_security_group Resource - terraform-provider-genesiscloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Security group resource
---

# genesiscloud_security_group (Resource)

Security group resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "genesiscloud_security_group" "allow-https" {
  name   = "allow-https"
  region = "NORD-NO-KRS-1"
  rules = [
    {
      direction      = "ingress"
      protocol       = "tcp"
      port_range_min = 443
      port_range_max = 443
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The human-readable name for the security group.
- `region` (String) The region identifier.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, the resource will be replaced.
  - The value must be one of: ["EUC-DE-MUC-1" "NORD-NO-KRS-1"].
- `rules` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rules))

### Optional

- `description` (String) The human-readable description for the security group.
  - Sets the default value "" if the attribute is not set.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when this security group was created in RFC 3339.
- `id` (String) The unique ID of the security group.
- `status` (String) The security group status.

<a id="nestedatt--rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rules`

Required:

- `direction` (String) The direction of the rule.
  - The value must be one of: ["egress" "ingress"].
- `protocol` (String) The protocol of the rule.
  - The value must be one of: ["all" "icmp" "tcp" "udp"].

Optional:

- `port_range_max` (Number) The maximum port number of the rule.
  - The value must be between 1 and 65535.
- `port_range_min` (Number) The minimum port number of the rule.
  - The value must be between 1 and 65535.


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import genesiscloud_security_group.example 18efeec8-94f0-4776-8ff2-5e9b49c74608
```
