---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "genesiscloud_ssh_key Resource - terraform-provider-genesiscloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  SSH key resource
---

# genesiscloud_ssh_key (Resource)

SSH key resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "genesiscloud_ssh_key" "example" {
  name       = "example"
  public_key = "ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIBOpdKM8wSI07+PO4xLDL7zW/kNWGbdFXeHyBU1TRlBn alice@example.com"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The human-readable name for the SSH key.
- `public_key` (String) SSH public key.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.

### Optional

- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when this SSH key was created in RFC 3339.
- `fingerprint` (String) The fingerprint of the SSH key.
- `id` (String) The unique ID of the SSH key.

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import genesiscloud_ssh_key.example 18efeec8-94f0-4776-8ff2-5e9b49c74608
```
