---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "genesiscloud_volume Resource - terraform-provider-genesiscloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Volume resource
---

# genesiscloud_volume (Resource)

Volume resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "genesiscloud_volume" "example" {
  name   = "example"
  region = "NORD-NO-KRS-1"
  size   = 50
  type   = "hdd"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The human-readable name for the volume.
- `region` (String) The region identifier.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, the resource will be replaced.
  - The value must be one of: ["EUC-DE-MUC-1" "EUW-GB-MNC-1" "EUW-NL-AMS-1" "NA-CA-FTS-1" "NA-CA-MNZ-1" "NA-CA-PRG-1" "NORD-NO-KRS-1"].
- `size` (Number) The storage size of this volume given in GiB.
  - The value must be at least 1.
- `type` (String) The storage type of the volume.
  - If the value of this attribute changes, the resource will be replaced.
  - The value must be one of: ["hdd" "ssd"].

### Optional

- `description` (String) The human-readable description for the volume.
  - Sets the default value "" if the attribute is not set.
- `retain_on_delete` (Boolean) Flag to retain the volume when the resource is deleted
  - Sets the default value "false" if the attribute is not set.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The timestamp when this volume was created in RFC 3339.
- `id` (String) The unique ID of the volume.
- `status` (String) The volume status.

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import genesiscloud_volume.example 18efeec8-94f0-4776-8ff2-5e9b49c74608
```
